Imagine that you’re eating
your favorite fruit
—a cool, crisp watermelon;
a fragrant peach;
a juicy pear; or that apple
in front of you at the breakfast table—
refreshing, distinctive, nutritious.
And then you get to the seed.
Most people consider
that to be a waste product,
and yet that seed tells us
much about our Creator.
It’s revealed for us
in 2 Corinthians chapter 9.
Please turn there, and we’re going
to consider together verses 8-15.
Jehovah has a remarkable quality
that we want to discuss today.
Jehovah wants us to enjoy
good, delicious food today.
But not only that, he wants us
to enjoy it again and again and again.
And he wants all of our offspring
to enjoy these good things again and again.
And if you were to plant all of the seeds
in one piece of fruit,
you would yield more
than you could possibly eat by yourself.
By conservative estimates,
one watermelon contains 200 seeds
and each seed produces a vine
and each vine produces,
by conservative estimates, two fruits.
So you would have
with just the seeds of one melon
400 more watermelons,
far more than you could eat
by yourself in one season.
And there’s a good reason for that.
Now as we look at 2 Corinthians chapter 9,
we want to examine this passage carefully.
Verse 8 begins with an important expression
that we need to understand clearly:
God’s “undeserved kindness.”
So let’s read verse 8,
then we’ll define the term,
then we’ll discuss the purpose
of Jehovah’s undeserved kindness
(and eventually,
we’ll get around to watermelons),
and we’ll come to understand
what all of this has to do with our worship.
Second Corinthians 9:8:
“Moreover, God is able to cause
“all his undeserved kindness
“to abound toward you
“so that you are always completely
“self-sufficient in everything,
“as well as having plenty
for every good work.”
Now, first, that expression
“undeserved kindness”
—do you have
a clear understanding of that term?
It’s difficult
to translate perfectly in English.
It’s not an expression
of judgment, as if to say,
“You are nowhere close to deserving this,
but I’m going to provide it anyway.”
No.
That’s not the concept at all.
The term is describing not the recipient
but the giver.
Jehovah is ready to give.
That is his disposition.
You didn’t pay him first.
He is disposed to share himself
—his generous, good, loving, kind qualities—
not because you earned it and obligated him,
but because that is who he is.
He is great, and yet he is humble and willing
to give in ways grander
than we could ever imagine or repay.
That is what undeserved kindness means.
And you’ll find
the essence of that definition
in your “Glossary of Bible Terms.”
Now, Jehovah could just miraculously endow
people with an abundance of good things,
as he did in the garden of Eden
or as he did with the manna provision,
but he does something even better.
He allows his friends to participate
in showing this quality of his to the extent
that we can within the limitations
of our human imperfection,
and he does that because
he knows it makes us happy.
“There is more happiness
in giving than there is in receiving”
because it gives us the opportunity to show
how we feel about Jehovah and about people
and because our showing love
draws us closer to Jehovah
and strengthens the bonds
of our worldwide brotherhood.
Now notice how all of this
is borne out in that verse:
“God is able to cause
“all of his undeserved kindness to abound
“toward you so that you are
“always completely
self-sufficient in everything,
as well as having plenty
for every good work.”
And verse 9 says: “(Just as it is written
“[at Psalm 112:9]:
“‘He [that is, the generous person
who fears Jehovah]
“‘has distributed widely;
he has given to the poor.
His righteousness continues forever.’)”
So are these verses suggesting
that Jehovah’s undeserved kindness
is so great
that his servants will always
have enough for themselves
and plenty to share with others
as acts of righteousness?
Yes, that is exactly
what these verses are teaching us!
The question I need to ask myself is:
‘Do I thoroughly believe that?
‘Do I believe that a generous person
‘suffers no loss
‘because Jehovah enables him
to do righteous deeds?
‘because Jehovah more than makes up for it
‘with his undeserved kindness
so that those acts of righteousness
may continue forever?’
Remember the evidence
in every fruit
and vegetable that you eat.
God puts a seed in each one.
And if you were to plant
all the seeds found in one fruit,
you would have more than
you could possibly eat by yourself.
Verses 10 and 11 use this exact illustration:
“(Now the One who abundantly supplies
seed to the sower
“and bread for eating
will supply and multiply
“the seed for you to sow
and will increase the harvest
“of your righteousness.)
“In everything you are being enriched
“for every sort of generosity,
“which produces through us
an expression of thanks to God.”
Beautiful verses.
So why does Jehovah provide so bountifully?
So that (the words of verse 8) you
and I can be generous.
Clearly, generosity
is an act of faith and love.
But why can it be said that generosity
is also an expression of worship?
Well, look at how verse 11 continues:
“Generosity . . . produces through us
an expression of thanks to God.”
Think of it.
Your generosity causes prayer,
which is worship.
And not only that, verse 12 continues:
“Because the ministry of this public service
is not only to provide well
“for the needs of the holy ones
but also to be rich
in many expressions of thanks to God.”
At the annual meeting, we learned
about the almost $50 million (U.S.)
that our organization
just spent on disaster relief
during the last two service years.
And we saw before and after photos
of the homes of some of our brothers.
We were pleased to note that our brothers
are well cared for.
And verse 12 calls that work a “ministry.”
It is sacred service, and, as such,
it results in many expressions
of thanks to Jehovah.
And verse 13 continues:
“Through the proof
“that this relief ministry gives,
“they glorify God because you
are submissive to the good news
about the Christ.”
Yes, you are real Christians.
You live what you believe
“as you publicly declared,
“and because you are generous
in your contribution to them and to all.
“And with supplication for you,
they express affection for you
“because of the surpassing
undeserved kindness of God upon you.
“Thanks be to God
for his indescribable free gift”
—that is to say, his undeserved kindness,
his disposition
to be generous beyond
our imagination or ability to repay.
That is the gift that enables us
to keep giving.
Each day, millions of prayers of gratitude
ascend to Jehovah for your generosity.
That strengthens
the bonds of our brotherhood.
Now, how are you able to be generous?
Where did you get the time, the energy,
the resources, the idea, the motivation,
the love, the opportunity
to give of yourself in this way?
Jehovah gave us these things
through his undeserved kindness.
And when you support Kingdom work,
you help those in need.
And Jehovah is worshipped,
as the words of our day’s text say
at 1 Chronicles 29:14:
‘Everything is from Jehovah,
and we have given
to him what comes from his own hand.’
You have drawn the right conclusion
from Jehovah’s undeserved kindness,
from his disposition to give freely.
You have trusted in his promise;
you have imitated his goodness;
you are participating in his happiness.
This is how Jehovah’s organization functions.
May Jehovah continue to bless you richly
for your participation in that.